docs/types.rst, before:


Types
=====

Node Types
----------


.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Server

.. rubric:: Runtime properties

* ``name`` Name of the server on vsphere and in the OS
* ``ip`` Management IP address of the server (as determined by finding the IP of whichever network is set as management), or the IP of the first attached network on the server (if no management interface is set). This will be null/None if there are no attached networks.
* ``public_ip`` External IP address of server (as determined by finding the IP of whichever network is set as external), or nothing if there is no network set as external.
* ``vsphere_server_id`` Internal ID of server on vsphere (e.g. vm-1234)
* ``networks`` list of key-value details of attached networks

  * ``distributed`` Whether or not this is a distributed network
  * ``name`` The name of this network
  * ``mac`` The MAC address of the NIC on this network
  * ``ip`` The IP address assigned to the NIC on this network, or None if there is no IP

.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.WindowsServer

.. rubric:: Runtime properties

* ``name`` Name of the server on vsphere and in the OS
* ``ip`` Management IP address of the server (as determined by finding the IP of whichever network is set as management)
* ``public_ip`` External IP address of server (as determined by finding the IP of whichever network is set as external)
* ``vsphere_server_id`` Internal ID of server on vsphere (e.g. vm-1234)
* ``networks`` list of key-value details of attached networks

  * ``distributed`` Whether or not this is a distributed network
  * ``name`` The name of this network
  * ``mac`` The MAC address of the NIC on this network
  * ``ip`` The IP address assigned to the NIC on this network, or None if there is no IP


.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Storage

.. rubric:: Runtime properties

* ``attached_vm_id`` Internal ID of attached server on vsphere (e.g. vm-1234)
* ``attached_vm_name`` Name of the attached server on vsphere and in the OS
* ``datastore_file_name`` The datastore and filename on that datastore of this virtual disk. e.g. "[Datastore-1] myserver-a12b3/myserver-a12b3_1.vmdk"
* ``scsi_id`` SCSI ID in the form of bus_id:unit_id, e.g. "0:1"


.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Network

.. rubric:: Runtime properties

* ``network_name`` Name of the network on vsphere
* ``switch_distributed`` True if this is a distributed port group, False otherwise.


.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Datastore



.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Datacenter



.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Cluster



Relationships
-------------

.. cfy:rel:: cloudify.vsphere.port_connected_to_network

.. cfy:rel:: cloudify.vsphere.port_connected_to_server

.. cfy:rel:: cloudify.vsphere.storage_connected_to_server


Data Types
----------

.. cfy:datatype:: cloudify.datatypes.vsphere.Config

    As well as looking for config values in the node's ``connnection_config``
    property, the plugin will also look in locations on the local filesystem
    for a JSON file containing config values.
    The values from the node's ``connection_config`` will be merged in to the
    values from the JSON file, with the node's options taking precedence.

    The following table shows the locations that will be checked for a config
    file. The first file (in the order shown below) will be used.
    (paths starting with $ are environment variables which will be expanded).

    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+
    | Path                                                | deprecated |
    +=====================================================+============+
    | $CFY_VSPHERE_CONFIG_PATH                            |            |
    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+
    | $CONNECTION_CONFIG_PATH                             | yes        |
    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+
    | /etc/cloudify/vsphere_plugin/connection_config.yaml |            |
    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+
    | ~/connection_config.yaml                            | yes        |
    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+
    | /root/connection_config.yaml                        | yes        |
    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+

.. cfy:datatype:: cloudify.datatypes.vsphere.ServerProperties

.. cfy:datatype:: cloudify.datatypes.vsphere.NetworkingProperties

Commit message:

VSPHERE-92 support inputs in operations (#99)

docs/types.rst, after:


Types
=====


.. admonition:: New in <TODO: new version number>
    :class: note

    All node properties may optionally be passed directly to operations as inputs.
    e.g.::

        node_templates:
          server:
            type:
              cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Server
            properties:
              name: server1
            interfaces:
              cloudify.interfaces.lifecycle.start:
                inputs:
                  name: different_name

    Here ``different_name`` from the ``start`` operation inputs
    will override ``server1`` from the properties.

    Beware that if properties are overridden in this way
    they must be explicitly overridden for all of the node's operations,
    otherwise behavior will be unpredictable.


Node Types
----------


.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Server

.. rubric:: Runtime properties

* ``name`` Name of the server on vsphere and in the OS
* ``ip`` Management IP address of the server (as determined by finding the IP of whichever network is set as management), or the IP of the first attached network on the server (if no management interface is set). This will be null/None if there are no attached networks.
* ``public_ip`` External IP address of server (as determined by finding the IP of whichever network is set as external), or nothing if there is no network set as external.
* ``vsphere_server_id`` Internal ID of server on vsphere (e.g. vm-1234)
* ``networks`` list of key-value details of attached networks

  * ``distributed`` Whether or not this is a distributed network
  * ``name`` The name of this network
  * ``mac`` The MAC address of the NIC on this network
  * ``ip`` The IP address assigned to the NIC on this network, or None if there is no IP

.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.WindowsServer

.. rubric:: Runtime properties

* ``name`` Name of the server on vsphere and in the OS
* ``ip`` Management IP address of the server (as determined by finding the IP of whichever network is set as management)
* ``public_ip`` External IP address of server (as determined by finding the IP of whichever network is set as external)
* ``vsphere_server_id`` Internal ID of server on vsphere (e.g. vm-1234)
* ``networks`` list of key-value details of attached networks

  * ``distributed`` Whether or not this is a distributed network
  * ``name`` The name of this network
  * ``mac`` The MAC address of the NIC on this network
  * ``ip`` The IP address assigned to the NIC on this network, or None if there is no IP


.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Storage

.. rubric:: Runtime properties

* ``attached_vm_id`` Internal ID of attached server on vsphere (e.g. vm-1234)
* ``attached_vm_name`` Name of the attached server on vsphere and in the OS
* ``datastore_file_name`` The datastore and filename on that datastore of this virtual disk. e.g. "[Datastore-1] myserver-a12b3/myserver-a12b3_1.vmdk"
* ``scsi_id`` SCSI ID in the form of bus_id:unit_id, e.g. "0:1"


.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Network

.. rubric:: Runtime properties

* ``network_name`` Name of the network on vsphere
* ``switch_distributed`` True if this is a distributed port group, False otherwise.


.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Datastore



.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Datacenter



.. cfy:node:: cloudify.vsphere.nodes.Cluster



Relationships
-------------

.. cfy:rel:: cloudify.vsphere.port_connected_to_network

.. cfy:rel:: cloudify.vsphere.port_connected_to_server

.. cfy:rel:: cloudify.vsphere.storage_connected_to_server


Data Types
----------

.. cfy:datatype:: cloudify.datatypes.vsphere.Config

    As well as looking for config values in the node's ``connnection_config``
    property, the plugin will also look in locations on the local filesystem
    for a JSON file containing config values.
    The values from the node's ``connection_config`` will be merged in to the
    values from the JSON file, with the node's options taking precedence.

    The following table shows the locations that will be checked for a config
    file. The first file (in the order shown below) will be used.
    (paths starting with $ are environment variables which will be expanded).

    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+
    | Path                                                | deprecated |
    +=====================================================+============+
    | $CFY_VSPHERE_CONFIG_PATH                            |            |
    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+
    | $CONNECTION_CONFIG_PATH                             | yes        |
    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+
    | /etc/cloudify/vsphere_plugin/connection_config.yaml |            |
    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+
    | ~/connection_config.yaml                            | yes        |
    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+
    | /root/connection_config.yaml                        | yes        |
    +-----------------------------------------------------+------------+

.. cfy:datatype:: cloudify.datatypes.vsphere.ServerProperties

.. cfy:datatype:: cloudify.datatypes.vsphere.NetworkingProperties
